--- 
title: Emacs Railsy-ness
layout: post
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

For the most part, I followed the instructions at "Dima's Rails On Emacs page":http://dima-exe.ru/rails-on-emacs.  This worked for the most part, however there were several gotchas that crept up as I was working my way through.  Here's what I did, that might be different than the other tutorials:

# I placed the @snippets.el@ and @find-recursive.el@ into the folder that I checked out the Rails on Emacs code.  (Perhaps this is what he meant by install, but I originally had them in .emacs.d, and that was wrong.) ruby-inf.el did, however remain in .emacs.d
# I reinstalled _ruby_ and installed _ruby-elisp_ from synaptic.  I did this because I read that when you install ruby on debian/ubuntu it will automatically install the necessary emacs modes.
# *Tip* After opening emacs, change your buffer to "Messages" it will have all the init information, and I found it very handy for debugging.

I'm also going to install the "Emacs Code Browser(ECB)":http://ecb.sourceforge.net/, which is supposed to provide some parsing of files to show methods, and other view-related functions.

Here's my .emacs file:

{% highlight cl %}
(custom-set-variables
  ;; custom-set-variables was added by Custom -- don't edit or cut/paste it!
  ;; Your init file should contain only one such instance.
 '(standard-indent 2))
(custom-set-faces
  ;; custom-set-faces was added by Custom -- don't edit or cut/paste it!
  ;; Your init file should contain only one such instance.
 '(default ((t (:stipple nil :background "#000000" :foreground "#00ff00" :inverse-video nil :box nil :strike-through nil :overline nil :underline nil :slant normal :weight normal :height 164 :width normal :family "adobe-courier")))))
;; this line makes a file executable after saving it
(add-hook 'after-save-hook 'executable-make-buffer-file-executable-if-script-p)
(setq load-path (cons "~/.emacs.d/emacs-rails" load-path))
(require 'rails)
{% end %}

h3. Resourceful Links

* "Rails on Emacs instructions":http://dima-exe.ru/rails-on-emacs
* "Rails on Emacs Rubyforge":http://rubyforge.org/projects/emacs-rails/
* "HowToUseEmacsWithRails on Rails wiki":http://wiki.rubyonrails.org/rails/pages/HowToUseEmacsWithRails
