--- 
title: Race for the Cure
layout: post
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

It's been several weeks ago, but my company, "Cardinal Health":http://www.cardinal.com paid for my entry in the "2007 Race for the Cure":http://www.komencolumbus.org/race/ in Columbus, Ohio.  More than 37,000 people showed up to run in this worthy cause.  While I didn't raise as much money as I would have liked to, you can still donate "here":http://www.komencolumbus.org/donations/.  It was really heart wrenching to see so many people who were running "In Memory Of" Grandma Jones, Aunt Doris, or Mother.  Please consider giving some money to a group that helps to eradicate this terrible disease.  Let me state it like this, we can put a man on the moon and bring him home safely, but we can't find a cure for a disease that takes wives, mothers, daughters, aunts, and grandmas?  We need a Jack Kennedy style mandate to have this disease beaten in the next 10 years.  With your donations, that could help.

This was my first 5k, and the first time that I've ever ran more than 3 miles without stopping.  I was very pleased with my "results":http://www.hermescleveland.com/results/2007/Columbus/OVERALL.HTM.  I finished 5333 out of almost 7000 people with a time of 40:10 (although I didn't actually cross the start line at the beginning until 2:30 into the race).  That may not seem like much, except for the fact that I was probably one of the heaviest people there.  For those that don't know me by sight, there's not a lot of difference, visually between myself and the average NFL offensive lineman, 6'4" and between 310 and 340 lbs.  