--- 
title: Is This Customer Support?
layout: post
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

I hate to be a dick about it, but I needed help installing an EV SSL certificate, so I went to the certifying authorities website and tried to find some articles or tutorials.  No dice, poorly documented, inaccurate.  They had a feature that let me "chat" realtime with one of their customer support folks.  Perhaps I'm really missing something major, but I think this is absolutely terrible.

<pre>
Malcolm: Hi!!

Malcolm: How can I assist you?

you: i'm trying to install an EV certificate on Apache

you: running Ubuntu

Malcolm: Ok.

you: i'm getting an error in IE7 only

Malcolm: can I have your order#

you: sure: #1234567

Malcolm: Please wait.

you: sure

Malcolm: I did installation check from our end, it seems that the root and intermediate certificates are not installed properly.

Malcolm: please install the root and intermediate certificates.

you: ok, there aren't _any_ instructions anywhere on how to do that

Malcolm: Please wait.

Malcolm: Please go through the below link.

Malcolm: https://support.nameprotected.com/index.php?_m=knowledgebase&_a=viewarticle&kbarticleid=264&nav=0,1,88

you: i've done all that

you: the site works with ssl in every browser BUT IE7

you: it has to do with EV portion

you: your documentation is woefully inadequate

Malcolm: Ok. Please send mail to support@nameprotected.com. We will solve your query.

you: I HAVE

Malcolm: Can I have your ticket number.

you: #987654321

Malcolm: Please wait.

you: what i'm saying is that your documents that i keep getting referred to are not clear

you: on how to install a EV certificate whether it be root or intermediate

Malcolm: Please wait.

Malcolm: could you please tell, at which place you are getting error

Malcolm: while installing the certificate.

you: I'm getting an error in IE7 when attempting to go to the page... it says that the certificate is not validly signed

you: no error in firefox or safari

you: to install the EV certificate, i downloaded the EV-Auto Enhancer for your website and used it as the SSLCertChainFile instead of the one you sent to, as directed by your site

you: for/from

Malcolm: Please go throgh the below link for evssl auto enhancer

Malcolm: https://support.nameprotected.com/index.php?_m=knowledgebase&_a=viewarticle&kbarticleid=1076&nav=0,1,82

you: perhaps you're not listening to me

you: I'VE ALREADY DONE THAT

you: please do not send another link to your documentation as it is completely incomplete

you: do you have a phone support center?

Malcolm: Phone Support will be available on Monday - Friday around 9am - 5pm GMT

Malcolm:

Malcolm: US + 1.555.1212

you: ok, so i've downloaded the file and have it set as the value for SSLCertificateChainFile

you: it's still not working

Malcolm: I have checked your domain in IE7

Malcolm: its working without  any error

you: with a green bar?

Malcolm: Yes.

you: to indicate EV SSL?

Malcolm: Yes.

you: try again because i'm getting certificate error:navigation blocked

Malcolm: Please wait.

you: do i need to rename the file to what my original ca-bundle was called?

Malcolm: No.

Malcolm: Now am getting error.

you: k

Malcolm: the error because root and intermediate certificates are not installed properly

you: you already said that

you: then you sent me a link

Malcolm: Yes.

you: which was followed

you: then i get the error

you: which is the root which is the intermediate?

Malcolm: Send your query to support@nameprotectedcom. We will escalate to our next level support

Malcolm: ca bundle file

you: you're killing me

Malcolm: I apologize for the inconvenience caused. send mail to us. We will escalate to next level support and solve your query.

you: great!!!!! thanks for all your help!

Malcolm: Welcome!!
</pre>

Am I completely missing it?